Now sometimes that can be cumbersome to add a bunch of such checks.
And here we already have three checks on the header for example.
Certainly something we can add but maybe not optimal.
Instead to keep our style objects cleaner we could set up a base header here for example had her base
and then add header I O S and header Android and now what we do is we take all these styles which change
based on the plat from out of the base style.
Add them here to a header IOW an Adder and header Android and on had.
IOW we only keep while the eyes look here so white
then this color for the border at the bottom and pixel width of one for that border.
And here on Android we remove this check and keep color primary as a background color and on the other
hand we get rid of our border by using these values or by entirely removing that and not setting it
at all.
Now we just need to make sure we add header ISIS or header Android and for that we can go up here and
set up our installs object where we merge in all our header base styles now.
So these are all ways set but now in addition we can merge in the result of platform select which now
is a method which takes an object where we have to specify an Iow key and point at the the value or
in this case the object we want to use if we are on IAW which is styled stored header W and add an android
key and point at styles that header Android.
And with that we're telling react native please merge in the properties of the value in this case and
object whereas selecting for us and for Android.
So you'll always have to pass an object to platform select and then you have different values for IOW
Android and the value here could also be a number just wouldn't work here because here we actually expect
an object so we can pull out all the property value Paris and pass them to our surrounding style.
So here a number doesn't make sense but you can use select with any kind of value.
Here we just need an object.
So we're pointing at the header IOW de header Android objects and with that we're having leaner code
we have leaner styles down there and then we have code with a base style where we then use plat from
select to dynamically pick different styles based on the platform we're running on and therefore now
we have the same look as before but now in a more elegant way and no place in our app where we could
take advantage of this is our main button here our main button looks and feels the same on both platforms
which isn't horrible but which also might not be what we want.
If we go to our main button J.S. file we see we always use touchable opacity here but actually on and
or do we might want to use the ripple effect.
Now thankfully react native has to touchable native feedback component built in which actually gives
us a touchable object which has a built in ripple effect.
So we want to use dad on Android and touchable opacity on ISIS.
Now of course we can use the platform API which we there for all to have to import from rec native to
use a different component here based on the platform.
And for that we can use a really neat feature react has not react native specific but we can use it
in react in general.
We can set up a variable which starts with a capital character so that we can use it as a j as X element
because only capital character variables can be used as J as X elements and we named as let's say button
component the name is totally up to you and by default that's touchable opacity.
So point at the touchable opacity object here without angle brackets just pointing at it like this.
Now we can add a check and check if platform OS is equal to Android and important all the check something
else on platform.
Also check if platform where John is greater or equal to 21 because only Android API version twenty
one or a higher supports the ripple effect.
So if both is true then we'll set button component to touchable native feedback so then we'll use the
one with the ripple effect otherwise we'll use the one with positive effect.
So if we're on Android and the Android version is high enough it's 21 or higher then we use touchable
native feedback now because a name does with a capital starting character we can use this here instead
of touchable opacity in our JSA X code looks strange at first but we'll work perfectly fine if we now
this and does restarts you'll see now here you have that ripple effect you can see it if we press and
hold you see that ripple effect on the button doesn't look perfect yet because it's actually a rectangular
and doesn't respect our border radius and we'll fix that but it works.
And on the other hand here on us we have the opacity effect as you can tell if you press this.
So now let's fix the border radius and we can do so by wrapping this with a number of view and that's
just a little hack a little work around you need to be aware of.
We wrapped it with a number of view where I set a style of let's say button container.
Add Dead style down there in our style sheet and on that button container here which is now wrapped
around everything.
I set the same border radius as I set on the button so 25 in this case here and I add overflow hidden
which means that any child component that would go beyond the boundaries of this components of the component
with this style is basically clipped and this will ensure that the ripple effect which is now a child
component of this view will be clipped while on the round that edges off this button.
So now if we save this and we retry this you will see that the ripple effect only fills out the button
which of course looks way better and on I of course we still have the same behaviour as before.
So using the platform here in a f check is also something we can do.
We can also use this neat trick here to render totally different components based on the platform we're
running on.